---
layout: post
title: Diversity and Inclusion
author: Nina Ebensperger
---

This presentaion reflected on diversity and inclusion with a thematic focus on the refugee crisis and a area focus in Europe.

## Diversity and Inclusion 
-----

[Click here to view presentation!](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10IEDhTy3v03_Tf5F-T9dIf8Kj2vo6npYmGaZVAx41Fw/edit?usp=sharing)


With increasing accessibility to advanced technologies and a globalizing economy, people are making connections with other world wide. They are being forced out of their comfort zone and into a more diverse world. No longer can people dwell in their own drawn up realities where everything looks the same, acts the same and thinks the same. Their lives are entangled with diversity as they walk down a sidewalk, go to work, or get coffee. With current levels of immigration to western countries on a high rise, people are growing more fearful. They feel like there's pressure on their way of life and that such change can only bring about violence and chaos. Most notably, in Europe, levels of immigration have reach record high numbers and quite a few number of people feel panicked. Recently the Danish government passed a controversial bill allowing authorities to confiscate $1,450 in cash and items that exceeded that amount in value. The reasoning for the bill is that it will better integrate the refugees with the Danish; since the Danish have to give up their valuables in order to qualify for social benefits. However in reality, Danish government is increasing the costs of seeking asylum in Denmark, encouraging migrants to look elsewhere where the costs aren’t as high. Lowering the amount of refugees they must take in and eliminating diversity in Denmark, a predominantly white country. 
While some are comparing the bill with Nazis confiscating Jews’ valuable items, others, like Danish People’s Party MP Kenneth Kristensen Berth, says the bill doesn’t go far enough. In this interview, Berth, while being on the more extreme side, embodies all the fears that can come about from the rising diversity. He believes integration of the muslim people is impossible. That they refuse to assimilate into the Danish culture, one that must be preserved and cannot be changed. His distrust of muslims is typical behavior that occurs when a place begins to have more diversity. For example, in a Harvard study, it was found that the most diverse place in the world, Los Angeles, also harbors higher levels of mistrust. They found that in the presence of diversity, people tend to hunker down and act much like turtles, keeping ourselves hidden away in our own world. They found that the more separately people of different races lived, the more mistrust is created. In the case of the refugees in Denmark, they are being housed in places separated from most citizens of Denmark, creating, as previously observed, high tension between the two. Although this seems to be a patterned behavior, it doesn’t mean that it’s inevitable. For this behavior is a socially constructed one and therefore can be unlearned. 
 Berth, like most Europeans, is certainly looking at the U.S. as a model for how to act towards the influx of immigrants. However he seems to be ignoring the differences of the institutions in the American constitution and the institutions in Europe. The U.S. is a mostly secular country and is therefore using a hands off approach towards domestic Islam (Patterson). This brings about a lot of hate speech and political figures like Donald Trump, whose actions are certainly unconstitutional. These figures seem to be what Berth is paying attention to. What he isn’t seeing is that immigration is very productive to a society. In the case of Japan, there is a large labor shortage. Unemployment is at a near record low as job positions go unfulfilled. Since graduating citizens are very over qualified for manual labor jobs, these necessary jobs are not being fulfilled. If Japan were to open its doors to immigration this unproductive gap will be closed. However there are arguments that doing such a thing would be counter productive because if they fill the gap then there would be no need to increase productivity which is entirely false. For if immigrants would be working the lower level jobs than the citizens would naturally work toward higher level jobs, moving society forward in production. Eventually this will lead to a more diverse work force as the children of those immigrants also pursue high level jobs. This will create even more productivity and creativity. Although the differences may be awkward at first, with time and effort, these differences will be overcomed and create a cultural synergy. Where the whole becomes better than the parts. It is much more productive to avoid controlling or suppressing differences and, instead, facilitate the process the group takes in making decisions to minimize the inefficiencies and frustrations that diversity causes. If this can be done, people will not be all thinking alike and become clones molded from the cookie cutter image of the ideal worker. Instead there would be more creativity towards methods of problem solving. 
However because of Europe’s more religious institutions, people like Berth feel like an influx of people with a different religion is a threat to the order of their traditional ways of living. Therefore, in Europe, there is more of a assimilation culture, trying to make “them” look like “us”. That respect for immigrants means putting them aside and not allowing them to be integrated into the european society. Especially if those immigrants are Muslim. One popular belief was expressed by Danish author Poul Vinther Jensen, “Europe is based on Christianity and it should stay that way, Islam has nothing to teach us” (Patterson). Due to the hard headedness of Europe’s approach toward the high levels of immigration, their actions will be exclusionary and preventative when with more effort and flexibility they can ensure a better quality of life for both the incoming refugees and their citizens. Although usually diversity is met with fear and mistrust, people can and should work to dismantle this social construct and rebuild a new one where we can live in our globalizing world in a productive manner.  




Works Cited 

Gary R. Weaver, Intercultural Relations: Communication, Identity and Conflict (3rd Edition), 2014, Section III: page 103 to 113;  Section V:  page 195 to 213 
Patrick Patterson, 2009, “A Kinder, Gentler Europe? Islam, Christianity, and the Divergent Multiculturalism of the New West.”
Financial Times, October 8, 2006, John Lloyd, “Study Paints Bleak Picture of Ethnic Diversity.”
Wall street Journal, August 30, 2015, 2011, Lisa Du, “In Japan, Foreigners Increasingly Fill Workforce Gaps”


